docs - custom viz sdk (#77974)
metabase/metabase: docs/embedding/sdk/config.md

{% include_file "{{ dirname }}/api/snippets/MetabaseProviderProps.md" snippet="properties" %}

## Custom visualizations

> The SDK can render [custom visualizations](../../questions/visualizations/custom.md). To allow custom visualizations in the embed, pass an allowlist of the plugins to the `allowedCustomVisualizations` prop on `MetabaseProvider`:

Reviewer: TIL that we're calling these widgets _plugins_. The SDK also has a notion of plugins, e.g. dashboard plugin for customizing drill-through menus. I thought we only call them "widgets" or "custom visualizations".

> The SDK can render [custom visualizations](../../questions/visualizations/custom.md). To allow custom visualizations in the embed, pass an allowlist of the plugins to the `allowedCustomVisualizations` prop on `MetabaseProvider`:

Author: ```suggestion
The SDK can render [custom visualizations](../../questions/visualizations/custom.md). To allow custom visualizations in the embed, pass an allowlist of the custom visualizations to the `allowedCustomVisualizations` prop on `MetabaseProvider`:
```

```typescript
{% include_file "{{ dirname }}/snippets/config/config-with-custom-visualizations.tsx" snippet="example" %}
```

> Only the plugins you list will load. Each entry is the plugin's name (the manifest `name`, which you can find under **Admin** > **Settings** > **Custom visualizations** > **Manage visualizations**), prefixed with `custom:`. For example, a plugin named `Calendar Heatmap` becomes `"custom:Calendar Heatmap"`. Names are case-sensitive, so `"custom:calendar heatmap"` won't match a plugin named `Calendar Heatmap`.

Author: ```suggestion
Only the custom visualizations you list will load. Each entry is the visualization's name (the manifest `name`, which you can find under **Admin** > **Settings** > **Custom visualizations** > **Manage visualizations**), prefixed with `custom:`. For example, a custom visualization named `Calendar Heatmap` becomes `"custom:Calendar Heatmap"`. Names are case-sensitive, so `"custom:calendar heatmap"` won't match a visualization named `Calendar Heatmap`.
```

> Omitting the prop, or passing an empty array, turns off custom visualizations. Cards that use a custom visualization will fall back to the default visualization for the query's results. If you allowlist a name that doesn't match an installed plugin, the SDK logs a warning to the console and falls back to the default visualization.

Author: ```suggestion
Omitting the prop, or passing an empty array, turns off custom visualizations. Cards that use a custom visualization will fall back to the default visualization for the query's results. If you allowlist a name that doesn't match an installed custom visualization, the SDK logs a warning to the console and falls back to the default visualization.
```

> For security, the SDK runs each plugin's code in an isolated sandbox, so a plugin can't reach your app or make network requests. [Only add plugins you trust](../../questions/visualizations/custom.md#only-add-plugins-you-trust).

Author: ```suggestion
For security, the SDK runs each custom visualization's code in an isolated sandbox, so a visualization can't reach your app or make network requests. [Only add visualizations you trust](../../questions/visualizations/custom.md#only-add-plugins-you-trust).
```

> For security, the SDK runs each custom visualization's code in an isolated sandbox, so a visualization can't reach your app or make network requests. [Only add visualizations you trust](../../questions/visualizations/custom.md#only-add-plugins-you-trust).

Reviewer 2: One thing worth noting is that custom viz can do http requests with `<img>` tags, that's why in the core app we require enabling the image CSP before they can use them.
On the react SDK, because they'll be controlling the CSP, unless they already enforce an image csp, a malicious plugin could leak some data. Maybe worth a line nudging people to set/check `img-src` in their CSP?

{% include_file "{{ dirname }}/api/snippets/MetabaseProviderProps.md" snippet="properties" %}

## Custom visualizations

The SDK can render [custom visualizations](../../questions/visualizations/custom.md). Custom visualizations are off in the SDK by default. To allow custom visualizations in the embed, pass an allowlist of the plugins to the `allowedCustomVisualizations` prop on `MetabaseProvider`:

```typescript
{% include_file "{{ dirname }}/snippets/config/config-with-custom-visualizations.tsx" snippet="example" %}
```

Only the plugins you list will load. Each entry is the plugin's name (the manifest `name`, which you can find under **Admin** > **Settings** > **Custom visualizations** > **Manage visualizations**), prefixed with `custom:`. For example, a plugin named `Calendar Heatmap` becomes `"custom:Calendar Heatmap"`. Names are case-sensitive, so `"custom:calendar heatmap"` won't match a plugin named `Calendar Heatmap`.

- Omitting the prop, or passing an empty array, turns off custom visualizations. Cards that use a custom visualization will fall back to the default visualization for the query's results.

> - If you allowlist a name that doesn't match an installed plugin, the SDK logs a warning to the console and falls back to the default visualization.

Reviewer 3: why is this suddenly a list?
